---
title: About me
author: Brendon
tags: personal, mathematics, haskell, philosophy
---

## Introduction

For my first post I will write a little bit about myself. I'll share what my
interests are, what my background is, and some of my ambitions. The first
part will cover my professional qualities, and then I'll talk about some
personal interests. I Hope you enjoy my ranting and please feel free to reach
out with any opinions of your own, corrections or comments.

## Career

_For detailed information on my career and education, please see my [resume
page](/resume.html)._

Throughout my career, I have worked primarily as a backend software engineer
making web applications. Additionally, I did some work on data engineering and
business intelligence projects. These applications were often data-intensive,
monolithic, or distributed systems in varying combinations. I really find big
data software to be such a fun space to work in.

I have no preference toward any specific architectures. I try not to be
dogmatic about the best tool. The most important thing to me regarding engineering
is having a cohesive team with strong principles. Graciously, I have had the
privilege of working with many smart individuals on all different types of teams.

## Education

Before I entered the industry, I completed my undergrad at a small, technical
engineering college in Vermont. From my hands-on experience there I have
developed a very pragmatic mindset with my approach to problem solving. I'm not
keen on claims about the "smartest solution". Usually, I am starting with the
simplest solution. My ego has never helped me crack a tough engineering
problem. Collaboration and clear communication have.

Simple has served me well in my career... but maybe I actually mean "elegant";
mathematical elegance, specifically. Check out ["Elegance" in
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elegance):

> ... the solution to a problem (such as a proof of a mathematical theorem)
> exhibits mathematical elegance if it is **surprisingly simple and insightful
> yet effective and constructive**.

I think that properly describes what I'm trying to say. Especially with
"effective and constructive".

## Mathematics

In college I met a wonderful professor who taught me math could actually
be a joy. Later in my career, a colleague introduced me to functional
programming. Both of these moments were transformative in my self study
interests and ultimately my career.

It has been a goal of mine to learn more about applied and
pure mathematics and how they relate to functional programming. For example, the
_Curry Howard Isomorphism_ is a fascinating topic in this space, and I've been
introduced to it through many wonderful authors, such as Sandy Maguire and his
book [_Thinking with Types_](https://thinkingwithtypes.com/) (which I highly
recommend).

## Philosophy

Now I'm going to get more personal and philosophical. I am continuously
fascinated by the importance and impact mathematics has on our level of human
thought. I only have an undergraduate engineering training in math, which
includes what most software engineers would learn; calculus and discrete
mathematics. Proofs were covered in the discrete class. It's these things, math
and programming, that really intrigue me and I believe this relationship can be
tapped for improving the day-to-day lives of engineers.

At the moment Haskell is my programming language of choice. It has
built-in abstractions from Abstract Algebra and Category Theory. You can
leverage these mathematical devices as tools for solving problems, and that to
me is really cool. An interesting topic that I stumbled upon, for example,
is _Algebraic Path Finding_. A method for generalizing shortest path algorithms
using _Semirings_. I would really like to cover this more in a future post and
dive into the text [_Path Problems in
Networks_](https://user.eng.umd.edu/~baras/publications/Books/S00245ED1V01Y201001CNT003.pdf).

So, it is my great ambition to bring these interests into my day-to-day job in
enterprise-level software engineering. I want to use these abstractions to
develop hardened applications that are correct, simple and elegant. It would be
really, really fun to dive deeper into this world of Algebra, Computation, and
thought.

## Thanks

One last addition before I wrap things up. I'd like to mention a few little
details about my preferred dev environment. These are likely to become future
topics for posts.

A major tool I use is NeoVim (btw). I also am a huge fan of NixOS (also, btw).
These two projects allow me to express the "hacker" in me. I'll discuss these
things more in the future, but if you'd like to check out some Nix and NeoVim
related stuff I have, please see my [dotfiles
repo](https://github.com/brendonakay/nixos-dotfiles), which is a nix flake
using home-manager and has a nix-managed NeoVim Lua config.

Thanks for reading.
