---
title: SaaS
author: Brendon A. Kay
tags: haskell, saas
---

During a discussion with a colleague I was caused to reflect on my career.
With that, I discovered that I have worked at some form of a SaaS company for
the majority of my career.

SaaS is everywhere. Wikipedia's definition is as follows

> Software as a service is a software licensing and delivery model in which software is licensed on a subscription basis and is centrally hosted. SaaS is also known as on-demand software, web-based software, or web-hosted software.

I've always considered myself a "backend" "software engineer", but these
are two words are roles within the overall SaaS industry. I think my "software engineer"-ing
skills are transferable, but the pretext "backend" relegates me to being a SaaS
SE.

Not that this is a bad thing, since this is all I know. I haven't worked in
video games, embedded, computer graphics. But even these things are becoming
some kind of service lately.

During my discussion with my colleague, I told him my revelation and we
discussed what SaaS businesses really were. Eventually we landed on the topic of
authentication.

A common implementation for a SaaS product is a web application.

During my experiment I struggled with setting up an up-to-date `gulp` or
`webpack` development environment. Luckily, I found a template to use for the
JavaScript ecosystem boilerplate. I think the important lesson here is to accept
help from the community whenever possible. If building a product, time-to-market
matters. It may not matter as much as building robust, secure, type-safe code.
But it's not nothing.

# On to the backend
The Frontend effort was kind of arduous. I got there eventually with the help of
open source software and RTFM. Now, on to the backend: Haskell Servant.

Trying out the servant-elm example repo first. This is very helpful, but I'll
build a brand new project based off these two.

# Experiment

# Things I've Learned
- Elm for Frontend
- Webpack for developing Elm
- Haskell Servant for backend

## TODO
- Set up demo web app to authenticate
- Microservice or SOA style
- Use k8s or something fun for hosting
- Link blog posts and resources
